Ladies and gentlemen,
our appearance stays with us throughout our
lives, and it's
our appearance that causes us so much
distress, preventing us from experiencing
moments of
happiness. No matter how beautiful someone is,
they may be proud of
their beauty in front of others, but deep down,
they have aspects they are
dissatisfied with. Do you agree? It's
always like that; we're always
finding flaws in our appearance,
and we often think, "
If only... if only
my nose were a little lower, if only
my mouth were a little wider..." There are
so many "if onlys," and that's why
we feel
dissatisfied with ourselves, even though
others might compliment us.
When people compliment us,
we forget about our
dissatisfaction. There are many beautiful people
who are very confident and proud of their beauty.
Men and women alike may not
necessarily be satisfied in their hearts, right? This
shows that everyone has a little bit of
dissatisfaction.
Because we are dissatisfied with our appearance, we
always strive to be beautiful.
Speaking of beautiful people, those who are already very
beautiful
rarely experience moments of dissatisfaction because
they are naturally beautiful. But for
those who are not beautiful, their bodies may
cause them
unhappiness throughout their lives. Today, I, at Hoan Quan, share
with you, in situations
like mine, where some people
consider themselves ugly. Because we consider ourselves
ugly, we become very self-conscious or
feel miserable
and never
happy with
our current appearance. How do
we overcome
this distress? If
we cannot overcome this distress,
we will not be happy.
We should find happiness
in our appearance in every
situation and circumstance. We also see
in videos and on social media that
many people are not happy.
So, they express their appearance outwardly, and we don't need to look at it
internally anymore. We'll just look at the
outside. We'll sit down and
carefully analyze what
aspects of our appearance we've been dissatisfied with.
Sometimes we don't dare think deeply about
it. It just comes across briefly,
then we ignore it because thinking deeply makes us
feel sadder, so we
don't think about it deeply.
And now, we'll think
more deeply, find what we
dislike about our own appearance, and we'll
sit down and ask ourselves, "What if this were like this? What if
that were like that?"
We'll sit for a while and answer
that our appearance can't be
changed because it's fate, it's just how it is, it ca
n't be changed. We'll dismiss
all those "what ifs," and
so every time someone sees
us, we won't feel
insecure. We'll get rid of some of that insecurity.
Now, let's start looking
back and see if we have any of those negative thoughts.  What kind of
insecurities have I experienced
in various situations
? Situations like interacting with friends,
colleagues,
neighbors, and family often felt
hindered by my appearance, leading to
unhappy thoughts. Then
we sit down and think about how
we should face them with our
own appearance,
without
makeup. We start visualizing ourselves
facing them, and we
put into it the
thought that our appearance is just like this, that's how it is. So
we'll face them.
We sit and think for
a while, then
we start going
out. For example, someone who has always been neatly
dressed and well-groomed
when interacting with neighbors,
today we
try going out without makeup,
meeting the same neighbors, and
seeing if anything
changes.
And so we break through.  Overcome your
insecurities and self-consciousness about your appearance,
and each time you do, you'll
find
happiness. This feeling of happiness about
your less-than-perfect appearance must be
created by yourself within
your own mindset. Because we have to face
our appearance throughout our
lives; we might have illnesses that
change our appearance, and
many circumstances can
alter it. If we don't overcome our
insecurities about our appearance, we wo
n't be happy, and we'll always
feel inferior to
others, even in terms of jewelry and clothing.
Therefore, sometimes we should wear
beautiful clothes, and sometimes we should wear less attractive
clothes so that we can
adapt to circumstances.
Sometimes we dress beautifully for festivals,
but let's keep ourselves
simple and natural, so that
we can live authentically with
our appearance. In this way, we
will overcome our insecurities about our
appearance.  If
we let things be natural, without makeup
or concealing our imperfect appearance,
we will encounter criticism, either
to our face or behind our backs. This
is our chance to confront
it because it's the truth. We
just need to change our mindset
to overcome it.
Think of it this way: the world has
inherent standards of beauty and ugliness. People define beauty by certain standards and ugliness by others. When someone
says something isn't beautiful, they're speaking against their own standards; when they say something is
ugly, they're speaking against their standards.
So we
have to accept that compared to those standards, compared to the standards
they're imposing,
we don't meet them.
And
we realize
that knowing people are speaking the
truth shouldn't make us sad,
right? Because they're saying it's true.
For example, if we're too tall, people might say, "Oh,
this person is as tall as a pole! So thin, I
don't know, that's ugly." Then we...  Don't
focus on what people are saying.
If you keep listening to what they say and
then turn back to yourself, thinking, "Oh no, it's
so bad, I'll just hide somewhere,"
then you won't eliminate
your suffering. If you're always
suffering, then you'll say, "Yes, what
they said is true, I'm
too tall, I'm too thin, that's the truth."
The truth will always remain the truth, and
you are the truth as it is. It doesn't
affect you. You may be too tall,
you may be too thin, but you are in control of
your life, it doesn't affect anyone else.
And so, we turn back to
our own hearts and ignore the person
who is talking to us. If we
don't recognize the truth—that's ourselves—
then we become troubled. We'll say, "
This person is always criticizing," "This person
said that to me," "
That person said that to me," and then we'll find ways to
speak ill of others, right? That's how
we lose our happiness
because we increase our suffering, right?
So now, the only way is for
us to...  We recognize our own appearance
and start thinking about what
people will criticize us for,
right? People meet us and say things like, "Oh, your
eyes are unlike anyone else's, your nose is unlike anyone else's, your mouth is unlike
anyone else's," and so on.
We try to figure out
what people are criticizing us for and talk to ourselves about it so we get used to
it. Then the next time we hear it, we'll feel normal, right? But if we don't recognize ourselves correctly, when we hear criticism, we will feel pain, and in that very moment, we lose our happiness. Although
this happiness isn't the kind that makes
us feel overjoyed, the absence of pain brings happiness,
but at a lower level.
Because if
we ourselves are dissatisfied with something,
how can others be satisfied? If
we are dissatisfied
with ourselves, how
can others be satisfied with us? That's why
this sharing program is a little more advanced
than other programs, because
this program is a program where
we...  We are people who are
dissatisfied with our own appearance, and
appearance is something that cannot be changed,
right? It cannot be changed.
So here, the Mindfulness Meditation shares with you all how we
can
reduce suffering and feel happiness
about our appearance, overcoming
it. From there, we
see that some people may
not even be as good-looking as us. We may already be considered unattractive,
but there are others whose
appearance is not as good as ours, and sometimes
we criticize them a little, right? If
we can feel ourselves,
we won't criticize
others. This is very difficult to
feel happiness. But if we are subtle,
we can still feel happiness.
Here, to feel
happiness, we must discover it. There
are three steps: The first
is to think about and recognize the
shortcomings in our appearance;
the second is to
think about the criticisms beforehand,
evaluating what people will say about
those shortcomings in
our appearance; and the
third is to practice facing it.  When faced with
such criticism, we should use
contemplative thinking to confront it. In
that mindset, we should always have
the thought that the person is speaking
truthfully. When we believe that the person is
speaking truthfully, sadness, resentment, and anger
disappear, and then we will experience
happiness. This
happiness is
n't about generating a feeling of
joy, but rather about
subtly observing that sadness and
resentment are absent. The absence of
sadness and resentment
is happiness, even if
we have the financial means to undergo
cosmetic surgery to improve ourselves.
However, cosmetic surgery is still
subject to the cycle of birth, aging, sickness, and
death; it will inevitably change. And
when we change,
we become dissatisfied. It's not that we can simply
change our appearance whenever we have money, but
eventually, even science will be powerless.
Therefore,
dissatisfaction with one's appearance will always follow
us.  Therefore, we need to
think about overcoming
our body image insecurities. This
mindset is essential in
all aspects. Whether you
have money for cosmetic surgery or not, please
share your
experiences of overcoming
body image insecurities so that we can all find
more joy and happiness.
Overcoming body image insecurities is
very difficult, so please
share when you have overcome even just
one thought of your body
image insecurities so that everyone can experience
that happiness. I wish you happiness even if you
have physical imperfections. I wish you
less worry and a
sense of peace and
happiness when you don't have many
advantages in appearance and have many
worries about your current appearance.
I wish you a feeling of
happiness when you overcome your
own body image insecurities.
[Music]
I